WIP: add archlinux image (#1435)
docker-library/docs: archlinux/content.md

# What is Arch Linux?

Arch Linux, is a lightweight and flexible Linux® distribution that tries to Keep It Simple.

Currently we have official packages optimized for the x86-64 architecture. We complement our official package sets with a community-operated package repository that grows in size and quality each and every day.

> Our strong community is diverse and helpful, and we pride ourselves on the range of skillsets and uses for Arch that stem from it. Please check out our forums and mailing lists to get your feet wet. Also glance through our wiki if you want to learn more about Arch.

Reviewer: It might be a good idea to turn "our wiki" here into a link to the (unparalleled) Arch wiki so the uninitiated can find it easier. :smile:

Author: Good point! I'll add the link.

%%LOGO%%

# About this image

> The base filesystem tarball for this image is auto-generated in Arch Linux infrastructure at the beginning of each month. Given the rolling-release nature of Arch Linux, images are tagged with the timestamp of the date they were generated. For example, `%%IMAGE`:20181107 was generated the Seventh of November of 2018. The latest tag will contain the latest build always.

Reviewer: Once we're getting ready to merge, I think you'll want to update this example to whatever's the "latest" snapshot at the time so it's not referencing a tag that never existed. :smile:

Also, you'll want to make sure `%%IMAGE` is the full `%%IMAGE%%` and probably should include the tag inside the code markers, ala:

```markdown
For example, `%%IMAGE%%:20190905` was generated ...
```

Author: Noted. I'll keep this in mind.

> The base filesystem tarball for this image is auto-generated in Arch Linux infrastructure at the beginning of each month. Given the rolling-release nature of Arch Linux, images are tagged with the timestamp of the date they were generated. For example, `%%IMAGE%%:20190905` was generated the Seventh of November of 2018. The latest tag will contain the latest build always.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The base filesystem tarball for this image is auto-generated in Arch Linux infrastructure at the beginning of each month. Given the rolling-release nature of Arch Linux, images are tagged with the timestamp of the date they were generated. For example, `%%IMAGE%%:20191006` was generated the Seventh of October of 2019. The `latest` tag will always contain the most recent build.
```
Minor edit and date adjustment.

This image is intended to serve the following goals:

	- Provide the Arch experience in a Docker Image
	- Provide the most simple but complete image to base every other upon
	- pacman needs to work out of the box

> 	- All installed packages have to be kept unmodified

Reviewer: I think this will probably render as a code block instead of a list, which likely isn't what you intended.  To appease `markdownfmt`, you'll want this to be `-<tab>text` (instead of `<tab>- text` as it is now) and that should properly create a markdown list.

Author: Ok! will fix.

## Base packages

> Given that this image doesn't intend to contain an init system, several packages of the `base` group have been removed.

Reviewer: Is the list of packages removed static enough that they could reasonably be listed here?  If not, is there perhaps somewhere in the GitHub repository we could link for users curious which ones this includes? (perhaps https://github.com/archlinux/archlinux-docker/pull/6 or https://github.com/archlinux/archlinux-docker/blob/master/packages)

Looking at that `packages` file, it does seem to contain the `systemd` package (and I understand why it would probably have to at this point), but it does seem like the wording here is slightly misleading as a result. :sweat_smile:

Author: Right! I'll review this and make sure it's up to date. I'll also add a forward reference to the packages list.

## Updating

> Arch Linux is a rolling release distribution, so a full update is recommended when installing new packages.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this is trying to say -- that folks should update all installed packages in the `RUN` lines of `Dockerfile`s which are `FROM` this one?  Would it perhaps instead make sense to recommend that folks pull and rebuild on top of the latest `archlinux:latest` image on a regular basis to ensure they get the full benefits of the rolling release nature of Arch?

Currently we have official packages optimized for the x86-64 architecture. We complement our official package sets with a community-operated package repository that grows in size and quality each and every day.

Our strong community is diverse and helpful, and we pride ourselves on the range of skillsets and uses for Arch that stem from it. Please check out our forums and mailing lists to get your feet wet. Also glance through our [wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org) if you want to learn more about Arch.

%%LOGO%%

# About this image

The base filesystem tarball for this image is auto-generated in Arch Linux infrastructure at the beginning of each month. Given the rolling-release nature of Arch Linux, images are tagged with the timestamp of the date they were generated. For example, `%%IMAGE%%:20190905` was generated the Seventh of November of 2018. The latest tag will contain the latest build always.

This image is intended to serve the following goals:

-   Provide the Arch experience in a Docker Image
-   Provide the most simple but complete image to base every other upon
-   pacman needs to work out of the box

> -   All installed packages have to be kept unmodified

Reviewer: Close, but not quite -- this needs to be literal tabs to satisfy `markdownfmt`.  If you trust the tool, you can use the script at the root of the repo to have it apply the change directly (`./markdownfmt.sh -w archlinux/content.md`), or I'd be happy to deal with `markdownfmt` changes if you'd rather. :+1:

```suggestion
-	All installed packages have to be kept unmodified
```

## Base packages

Given that that the image is intended to be light-weight several packages of the `base` group have been removed. Please take a look at the [packages](https://github.com/archlinux/archlinux-docker/blob/master/packages) file to see what packages are included on this release.

## Updating

Arch Linux is a rolling release distribution, so a full update is recommended
when installing new packages. In other words, we suggest to either execute `RUN
pacman -Syu` immediately after your `FROM` statement or as soon as you docker

> run into a container.

Reviewer: I'm guessing your editor (or muscle-memory) auto-wrapped this paragraph for you? (it's making `markdownfmt` grumpy -- I'm happy to do the `markdownfmt` dancing if you'd rather)
